Id: 1889
Title: Bad Google - the fallout
Date: 2004-12-30T23:32:08-08:00
Format: Markdown
--------------
The good thing about using Bloglines is that you can easily track who's commenting on your piece. There are quite a few and my bloglines subscription count jumped from 58 to 66.

I probably owe [Dare](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/) the popularity
of this post. He [mentioned it on his
weblog](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=04cfe9ed-c55e-4388-9486-db19fed50b71).
His bloglines subscription count is 422. Other people that linked to it
are [Paresh](http://radio.weblogs.com/0111019/2004/12/30.html#a346),
[Danny](http://dannyayers.com/archives/2004/12/30/do-no-evil-do-no-good/),\
[James](http://www.cincomsmalltalk.com/blog/blogView?showComments=true&entry=3281876277),\
[Johannes](http://www.monochrom.at/english/2004/12/google-we-take-it-all-give-nothing.htm),\
[Alfred](http://www.thespoke.net/MyBlog/AlfredTwo/MyBlog.aspx?entryid=71479#entryid)\
and [Adam himself](http://www.adambosworth.net/archives/000039.html).

[Randy](http://www.clrsql.com/archive/2004_12_30.html#000012)
essentially agrees, pointing out that Google, despite hiring a lot of
Ph.D., contributes very little to academic world, much less that
Microsoft's MSR.

[David](http://www.loudthinking.com/arc/000382.html) makes a very good
point: freely available, open source software gives the small guy
ability to compete with a big guy because it significantly lowers the
cost of doing business. In other words: everybody, big and small, can
freeload on open source.

[InsideGoogle](http://google.blognewschannel.com/index.php/archives/2004/12/30/whoa-its-on/)
thinks I'm [one angry
guy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twelve_Angry_Men).

[Mike](http://korrespondence.blogspot.com/2004/12/how-does-amazon-contribute-back-to-oss.html),
who works for Amazon, defends Amazon but I don't like his spin. First,
he denigrates the value of the source code and elevates the value of
Amazon's web services and data they provide.
[Larry](http://www.larryborsato.com/blog/archives/000405.html) makes
similar comment: Google is good because their search is a useful, time
saving service. Just to be clear: I love Google search and gmail, I use
it every day. I love Amazon, I use it almost every day. I love
Microsoft's Windows XP, I use it every day. I love Apple's iPod, I use
it every day. I also love Kellog's cornflakes, the ones with
strawberries in them. All of that is irrelevant: all those companies do
what's good for their business, making good products that I pay for, one
way or another. And they would create those products the same even if
they had to pay for all the software they use in the process.

I'm just using those companies as an example, to show that popular
wisdom about open source is largely a myth. Open source code gets
written but its success is not because of processes that people
describe.

The reason for incredible growth of open source is not yet understood
and usually misrepresented.
